# Deep Learning PC Build for Beginners in 2020

Hello World !!! 

## What is Deep Learning and Why you must have high compute power

As you might be knowing Deep Learning is a subset of Machine Learning where you deal with complex problems like Image & Text using different Neaural Network Architectures. So, there will be lots of neurons in lots of hidden layers (millions and maybe billions of parameteres) and the job would be to get the optimal weights for these neurons. 

## Cloud vs Local
`Storage` and `Compute` are the two most important things even when doing any kind of Data Analysis. Now you must be wodering about which compute option to choose between cloud or having your own pc. Each option has its own prose and cons. But as a `beginner` I would suggest you to first go to [Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/) and give it a try. Although it has some limitations on usage but it won't matter if you are a beginner.
And you will get **`free CPU/GPU/TPU`**. Yesssss you read it right !!!


The **`cloud`** option is good in a sense that you don't have to worry about any setup or assembling hardwares. Just spin up some instances and you are good to go. You only have to worry about shutting them down when not in use.

Having a **`local setup`** is what I preferred because I wanted to feel the power at my finger tips, hear the fans running at full speed at extreme loads. Also, my (very)old laptop was broken and I needed something new anyhow.


## How to Select parts
The two things I think are important for part selection
  - `Budget` could be ranging from $500 to $10,000. It's up to you how much you can afford at the moment. Some people believe in spend lessnow and upgrade later whereas some people believe in wait for money to get accumulated and buy best parts in one shot.
  - `Purpose of the build` could be any of the `Deep Learning`, `Gaming`, `Editing` or a combination of them. Where you are going to keep this build? Whether you will be physically using or SSHing the build? How often you will be using it?

## My PC parts list
There are lots of brands and lots of options/configurations to choose from for a particular part. Given my little knowledge of hardware and abundant knowledge freely available on internt it was easy to get lost. But with the help of lots of articles, videos, forums and folks on the interent I was able to pull this off. 

Due to Covid-19, the availability of parts was big issue and if available in my country the prices were skyrocketing. I knew I had to spend more than I anticipated. But still I went ahead as I urgently needed a pc/laptop to stay in practice.

My requirements were simple. ***`performance`***. Whether it has ***`RGB`*** or not I didn't care. Below are the parts I chose, but I encourage you to do your own research and then make purchases.

### **`1. GPU`**

A Graphical Processing Unit should be the first and one of the most important things to be considered when buiilding a Deep Learning rig. It has many cores to handle the high compute(matrix multiplication). AMD and NVIDIA are the two top brands in race but you might want to go with Nvidia for CUDA and cuDNN. Also, the GPU RAM should be as high as possible to have larger batches to train. When I built my pc, the Nvidia RTX 30XX series GPUs were not launched and there was no point in buying 10XX or 20XX series GPUs(costly but less performing). So I went ahead with the **`Nvidia GTX 1660 SUPER`** for hvaing the best price to perfomance ratio at that time and keeping in mind to upgrade to a 30XX series RTX graphhics card in early 2021.

### **`2. CPU`**

A Central Processing Unit is the heart of the build. AMD and Intel are the two most preferred brands which provide very powerful CPUs. Intel is preffered over AMD due to MKL (designed by Intel) but still I fell in love with the price to performance(cores) ratio of AMD and bought **`AMD Ryzen 3900X`**  for its 12 core & 24 threads. 

### **`3. CPU Cooler`**
A high performing CPU means high power consumption and high heat generated. Therefore a good quality cooler is needed to dissipate the heat generated by the 3900x. Although it comes with a wrath prism cooler, I went ahead with **`Noctua NH-D15 Chromax Black`** which is one of the best aftermarket cpu coolers.

### **`4. Motherboard`**

Another tough choice for me. A motherboard should be selected based on compatibility with various other parts. After much research and comparisons I went ahead with **`MSI MEG X570 Unify`** for its heat sink, price and Pure Dark color design. 

**`5. RAM`**
The more RAM the better but it is recommended that you should have RAM at least double the size of your GPU memory. My motherboard could support 128GB in 4 DIMM slots so I went ahead and bought 4 sticks of  **`Corsair Vengeance LPX 32GB 3000mhz c16`**  

**`6. Case`**
A case is very subjective thing. Case keeps all the parts safe inside itself. That is the first thing everyone lays their eyes on. I wanted a `high airflow, decent looking` case, so I went ahead with **`Cooler Master H500`**.

**`7. PSU`**
One should never compromise on Power Supply Unit. It provides the fuel to the machine to run smoothly. A general recommendation is to have 10% more watts on top of your total required watts by all parts combined. A 750W or 850W would hav ebeen sufficient for my build, but due to unavalability of these I had to go ahead with **`Corsair RM1000X`**.

**``**

**`8. SSD`**


**`9. Monitor`**


**`10. WebCam`**


**`11. Keyboard`**


**`12. Mouse`**


**`13. Headset`**


**`14. USB Drive`**




## Reference:
[pcpartpicker](https://pcpartpicker.com/) 








- what si deep learning and why u need high compute
- cloud/local
- componenets n budget
- my pc parts list
- after this where to go?

